
# Karim's Summer Prime Internship Journal 2021
Tuesday, July 6th: This was my first day as an actual intern from Prime for Nova Web Development. Upon arriving to the Cowork cafe, which is the place where we'll work for the rest of July, I was able to meet the other interns, Max, Ivy, and Marion, as well as incoming college freshman, Hisham, and member of NWD, Jeff Elkner. We started out by setting everyone up to the wifi and going a sort of plan for what we are going to be working on and deliver to the coop, much like any other job orientation. Most of the work that we will be conducting will be investigating Decidim. After that, I started workibg on basic Unix comman lines and using a tutorial for vim. I was also able to set up and download github, as well as zulip and access all the NWD chats.

Wednesday, July 7th: N/A PFD(Prime Field Day)

Thursday, July 8th: The big focus of this moring was cloning the decidim repository that we will be using the summer to conduct our investigation on Decidim. In our terminal window, we were all able to successfully complete this and set up our journals to fill up. What we also worked on this moring was practicing our skills on Big Blue Button and use the different features on there. Colombene gave us a presentation on User Experience Design, which I find really interesting. The meeting itself lasted about one hour, and then we consulted each other to come up with a plan to install Decidim an commence our research. 

Friday, July 9th: Today marked our first week as interns at Nova Web Developement and a quarter of the way through. We mostly focused on setting up and finally installing Decidim on our laptops 

Monday, July 12th: We started the morning off today by setting up our decidim accounts to finally get it up and working, so that we can start experimenting with it. at around 9:30 local time, Louis returned Hisham's previous call to help him setup our decidim accounts. Hisham had trouble accessing the bundle contents and seems to be fine for now. We are now all logged into Decidim Dogfood as admins and are ready to start playing around with it and really testing its capabilities, weaknesses, and strengths. Being logged into the decdim accounts, I am finally able to see what we can actually do on this system and creare pages, assemblies, proposals, etc.. I also am a fan of the notifications and the accessibilty they provide especially for deomcratic platform such as this one. One thing I wanted to try out was creating a prcoess through decidim. I made something pretty insgnificant, but enough to test out the different function. I made some silly apeal to provide more comfortable wooden chairs, since I noticed there were some here at the cowork cafe that were missing cushions. With this idea, I was able to reasonably implement a survey about people's preferences. After our lunch break, the objective was to play some more with decidim and practice making and creating processes that were able to be modified by others and updated easily. I also, personally, wanted to test how well and easy it was for admins to be notified on a regular basis of process groups being created. I think we'll also be working on just organizing and debriefing what we did, accomplished, and wished to have accomplished by today, so that we could present that to Jeff by tommorow. Overall, I think most of us have the gist of what decidim sort of is and some of its functionalities, but I'm very interested and intrigued by the idea of exploring it.

Tuesday, July 13th: Today was the first day we implemented and actually held our 7:30 AM routine morning meeting where we debrief everything we accomplished and struggled with the day before. I think Jeff was happy with what was done. We were able to figure out to use process and publish surveys with questions and answers that are answerable by other admins and users. We set up proposals which we had a little issue with yesterday. Today, I am working on a new processing strictly on where we stand with Open Source POlitics. I'm currently having trouble with instancing and creating the surveys. It keeps outputting that the form is "closed", even though I set up an available timeline which should've made it "open". I am also on propsosals that can be written. My survey finally works and can be published. If I am being completely honest, I'm not quite sure what did the trick, it seems to have been automatic. A consultant from Open Source Politics who is in charge of the deployment of Decidim here in the U.S. did respond back by saying they would like to setup a meeting next Tuesday at 10 am. After lunch, I will be playing around with Decidim seeing what works and what doesn't. I just put in a meeting tab for anyone to register. This for our meetng next week with OSP.  

Thursday, July 15th: We just had our 7:30 meeting in the freezer/conference room. We talked about what was accomplished on Tuesday. From what I understand, it seems that our next step that we will be working on today is to move the processes that are serious to the US tech worker's coop decidim website. If we're going to do, we're going to need to be extremely careful with how we edit, since we do have a lot of power om participatory and democratic website. OSP has just responded with a conifrmation email for the time we wanted to meet, as well as the format on BBB, which is pretty cool. My admin account for the US tech workers coop has now been created. I was able to look at the different processes created and see what other professionals have been able to do with this relatively new platform. I basically jsut re-created my own processing on updates with OSP and published it. As of right now, we do have a meeting schedulued with Louis and possibly, Colombene, I believe, on BBB. The meeting will take place at 12:30 pm in the conference room meaning we don't earbuds and can talk at a more reaonable volume.

Friday, July 16th: For our daily morning meeting, we discussed the logistics of how we are going to mirror the computer on the TV screen. The biggest problem we're having right now is getting the audio to work. We know it's not the tv that's not working, because once we unplugged the cable, the audio was still not working. I think the final thing we're doing is just going to use Jeff's more powerful computer. One thing we will be focusing on today is getting a new instance of Decidim to run so that way we will have to testing instance, with one being decdedicated to modifying the source and the other is testing Decidim's functionalities. Right now, we'er having problems with implementing proposals into our assemblies. Max was able to make us all members of the Nova Web Development assembly on the Decidim us tech worker coop website. After lunch, we were reviewing Decidim documentation when we fell upon a problem with the permissions, which is related to a problem we have with Decidim. A lot of the documentation is hard to follow and even, sometimes, outdated

Monday, July 19th: Jeff brought in his other computer for Max to use for our upcoming meetings with FundAction and Open Source Politics. We tested out the computer and it works just fine on BBB, so we're all set. Following the confusion from OSP's previous email that the meeting was at 10 am French time, instead of it being 10 Virginia time like it was agreed upon. Howver, this morning, they sent an invitation for the meeting at 4 pm CET. Before our meeting today at 11:15, we are preparing the questions that we are going to ask and do some more reseacrh on the companies we are hoping to partner with. Jeff outlined some of the things and goals we are hoping to get out of this meeting. 

Thursday, July 22nd: This morning we discussed what we would be doing for the last week and a half, given the meetings we had earlier this week. 2 of us will be working on the technical side of exploring and documenting Decidim, while the two others will focus on a more marketing aspect. Now, we're all focusing on the political and marketing aspect and learning about OSP as much as we can. 

Friday, July 23rd: For our morning meeting, Jeff basically let us know that the rest of the members of NWD have agreed to continue with Decidim and use it to produce revenue. What we're trying to do now is is research and find out much more about grants that can be given to NWD,

Monday, July 26th: I came in a little late today to our rendez-vous, so now I am just getting started and settled in. We had our meeting with Louis later on that day after lunch. The main topic of discussion for the meeting was research grants and what to work this last week of our internship. We discussed that applying for various grants was quite tedious and time-consuming, but did not always yield results. I don't think any of us PRIME interns are expected to actually apply for those grants, since realistically we only have two days and a half left and it usually takes much longer and someone you know to actually achieve that. 
