# Max's Summer Prime Program Journal

## 7/6/2021
**On the first day,** we spent the majority of the time setting up our workspace and connecting to the Internet at CoworkCafe. I did some tutorials with Unix and Vim to help prepare to use them on the following days. Worked from 7:30-1:30.  

## 7/7/2021
**On the second day,** we had a virtual field trip with the Prime Program to be able to speak to people currently in the STEM field in Northern Virginia. The majority of the Zoom call was spent trying to sell the world of engineering to us viewers.  

## 7/8/2021
**On the third day,** we hit the ground running. First, we tested and became fmailiar with BBB in preparation for our video conference with Colombene Gorton this afternoon. We communicated this with her through Zulip. Then, we cloned the git repository that we are working on to ur computers. After that, we each added our own journals to the repository and made commits for each of them. Today, we have had to put our practice with Git and Vim to use. We configured our ssh so that we can enter without a password and disabled passwords entirely. We had our conference call with Colombene, where we learned about User Experience and the necessity of UX in all sorts of projects. Unfortunately, there may have been an issue with the recording, so that is yet to be concluded. We then discussed our plan for installing Decidim tomorrow, when I accidentally found Jeff's blog post about the installation process that we needed.  

## 7/9/2021
**On the fourth day,** we began the day beginning the installation process for Decidim. It is somewhat unclear how long this process will last, but it definitely will not be a short amount of time. Adding to the lengthy process, we were unaware of the fact that the recommended version of Ruby to download was outdated and caused and error during the Decidim installation. We seem to be getting stuck at the end as we attempt to install Passenger. The failed install of Passenger brought up several other issues which made us eventually realize that we probably have to completely restart with Ubuntu instead of Debian 10. While our Decidim installation process is somewhat on hold, we have been researching various other implementations of Decidim. I contacted the Participatory Budgeting Project in New York City to try to learn more and I am eager for a response. We had to essentially restart twice now, so the responsibility of being the one installing everything is no longer on my hands. Unlikely that the installation process will be done in the next 20 minutes, but I suppose there is optimism for next week.  

## 7/12/2021
**On the fifth day,** Louis had already finished the Decidim installation for us, as we likely could have finished if it were not for some amount of miscommunication. We are currently awaiting admin access to Decidim Dogfood, but Hashim seems to have received the proper instruction on how to do that exactly. Meanwhile, I've spent more time researching and contacting other implementations of Decidim around the world. Given that our original plan for the day has been somewhat delayed, we are now mostly just waiting around and doing basic busy-work for the time being. We just got admin access to Decidim Dogfood and it is time to start playing with it. This period of time to investigate Decidim's capabilities is what this internship's goal is, so I'm ready to take this seriously and hit the ground running. I have created a process with an introduction, a survey, and a proposal. However, I seem to keep running into an issue with the proposal where I get an error message about a problem with the server each time I try to open it. A search on Google tells me that Decidim may need to be updated, but it was only installed yesterday. Was the latest version not installed when Louis did it yesterday? If not, did Louis install an older version on purpose? What issues would be caused by getting the latest update? These are all questions I hope I can find the answers to at some point, but we only have about an hour left, so I plan to keep experimenting with other aspects of the process for now. It seems that my Google searching brought me to the wrong answer because Ivy solved my problem! I now have a working proposal as well as options to vote on budgeting for that proposal. The UI for this site is honestly really appealing, so I could totally imagine something like this being used on a large scale, but first we need to perfect this.  

## 7/13/2021
**On the sixth day,** things truly started off with a bang! I checked my NOVA Web Development inbox to see that a representative from FundAction (one of the companies I had reached out to earlier) had responded! Given that we are practicing participatory governance, I figured this would be a perfect use of Decidim to decide how we want to repond to FundAction. First, we gave our presentation of our progress from yesterday to Jeff, which he was very impressed by. Then, I got right to work creating a process for us to choose our method and plan of communication with this representative. One aspect that I wish I could get to work, but cannot seem to find the solution to is allowing participants to create their own proposals. Luckily, this does not hold back the process for FundAction Communication, but it would certainly be nice to utilize. We have secured the freezer room to have our meeting with FundAction on Monday at 11:15 am. Next Tuesday, we will also have a meeting with a French company called Open Source Politics, which is a company that Jeff really thinks NOVA Web Development should try to model themselves after. Personally, I am very interested in FundAction's use of Decidim, where they use it as a form of participatory budgeting for grants that are meant to support social action and justice. To me, it is such a brilliant way to utilize Decidim that could totally be used in the United States as well! Regardless of whether or not that is the path that NOVA Web Development pursues, it is certainly nice to see how progressive the community around participatory governance is (although that can probably be assumed given that participatory governance is quite left-leaning on its own). For the remaining hour of time today, I want to explore the features of Decidim that I haven't gotten to yet, even if it is just to a minimal extent. I just added a link to [NOVA Web Development](https://novawebdevelopment.org/) on to the Dogfood site through the NOVA Web Development logo. In my opinion, it makes the site look a bit more clean and professional.  

## 7/14/2021
**On the seventh day,** we had another virtual PRIME group day. This group day was much more interactive and was a lot about just trying to learn more about the other internships people are doing within the PRIME program. I think this was much more successful than the lecture style of the first group day.  

## 7/15/2021
**On the eighth day,** we began with the plan to set up our processes regarding the meetings with European companies next week on the real [Decidim implementation](https://ustechworkercoops.org/) because Jeff wants these processes to be saved beyond this internship and after Dogfood is taken down. This means we will have to be somewhat more professional with these processes and more careful as well. Luckily, Ivy figured out how to allow participants to make their own proposals, which would definitely be useful for the process I am about to create. It will also give me the opportunity to play around with scopes and try to only allow people within NOVA Web Development to participate, while allowing others to view the progress. Ivy and I began testing assemblies in Decidim and ultimately decided that the best way to go about incorporating other co-ops in NWD's instance of Decidim would be to have each co-op create an assembly for themselves with all of their members added to it, then making child assemblies instead of processes within the parent assembly. This way, anyone can view their assembly, but only the selected members of the assembly can participate. We just had a call with Louis for about an hour talking about what we want to pick the brains of FundAction and OSP about, as well as coming up with a basic plan for the next two weeks of this internship. We all agree that the documentation within Decidim is in need of improvement, so we will be spending time creating our own documentation of it that NWD can either use for the co-ops they are trying to introduce to Decidim or even give it to the Meta Decidim community, which would likely be much appreciated by many Decidim users. We are also going to spend some time learning more about the code aspect of Decidim in Ruby, that way we can improve UI and some other aspects (like changing the units from Euros to USD) that would provide an overall better experience for those trying to use Decidim. The primary issue holding Decidim back is the commitment it takes to be able to understand Decidim before being able to properly use it.  

## 7/16/2021
**On the ninth day,** we started the day trying to find a laptop that will be usable for the meetings with FundAction and OSP next week. Unfortunately, our quest was unsuccessful and we basically used the first hour learning that we need a better laptop to handle a BBB meeting. I created a fairly basic document that explains how to create a process in Decidim and set a good template for making more documentation about using Decidim. After that, we worked on trying to configure the NOVA Web Development assembly and ran into a wall. For some reason that is unknown to us, we are not able to set the assembly so that members can create proposals and nobody else can. We have that working on Ivy's assembly on Dogfood, so we are super confused. For the rest of the day, we will work on starting more documentation and trying to problem solve this error that we found. On a separate note, I got Earl's Sandwiches for lunch and it was crazy good. I just want to write that down to remember that.  

## 7/19/2021
**On the tenth day,** we again began testing yet another laptop in preparation for our FundAction meeting today. Thankfully, it actually worked this time. I finished my documentation for making processes and added that to the Git repository as well. We also are still trying to understand how to let only members make proposals in assemblies and we are running into so many problems. Basically, proposals suck and they are stupid. That's my conclusion. With no further luck regarding proposals, I wrote another documentation forprocess groups. It seems that I am basically tackling this documentation task alone, which will probably not lead to success by the end of these next two weeks. We will see what Louis has to say about it today after our chat with FundAction. We had our conversation with FundAction and I think it went pretty well. It helped to calm down some of the nerves we had about the ease of use and documentation. It's clear that users of Decidim do not need to be experts in any way. After the call, we talked to Louis for a bit and within minutes of beginning our lunch break, Louis seemed to have solved our proposal problem. Louis to the rescue! We will still take our time to test that there isn't anything wrong with the way he configured it, but it is certainly a relief.  

## 7/20/2021
**On the eleventh day,** we were somewhat in need of a task to complete prior to the call with Open Source Politics. We still have 90 minutes left and there isn't any specific task we left off with yesterday that we planned on continuing today. We had our talk with OSP and it gave Jeff the hope that he needed to focus on actually implementing Decidim in the various cases that he was looking for. It felt a bit like the call was just their representative trying to sell OSP to us, but I guess it worked. Now, us interns have to make a decision individually about whether we want to pursue the more technical and documentation aspect or the more political and marketing aspect. Although I have been leading the team with the documentation in a sense, I am a bit more interested in the process of trying to sell Decidim to companies and being in communication with OSP and others. I might wait to see how the others split off and decide which one I feel could use me more. We will basically be discussing this for the remainder of our time today and be able to reconvene with Jeff on Thursday.  

## 7/21/2021
**On the twelfth day,** we had another virtual group day. Today's talk was largely about accepting and utilizing your skills and flaws. That regardless whether or not you consider yourself to be more adventurous, you can always find ways to push the limits of your comfort zone.

## 7/22/2021
**On the thirteenth day,** we began our individual explorations for either the technological aspect or the political aspect of Decidim. I chose to learn more about the political aspect and we have been tasked with researching everything we can find about Open Source Politics, as NWD may very well be in a partnership with them. I added some notes about a couple OSP projects, but since everyone else was also doing the political aspect, I decided to keep working on documentation. I created a lengthy document describing proposals and went through to add links everywhere that I wanted them. I will spend the rest of today configuring and making the documentation look more pleasing because there is not enough time to begin a new document right now.  

## 7/23/2021
**On the fourteenth day,** we began by exploring different opportunities for NWD to receive grants for the various Decidim projects we are doing. Jeff plans to apply for a grant from the National Education Association (because Jeff wants to implement Decidim on the Arlington NEA affiliate) and the FordFoundation. The problem is that many of these grant opportunities are centered around social justice, which aligns with the morals of the Decidim community, but is not necessarily related to how Jeff wants to implement it. However, his idea for it could easily be sold as another way to create justice reform and attack racism. I think he will need to sell the progressive aspect of Decidim as hard as possible. Still with the desire to build a full description of OSP for these grant applications, I just reached out to UIC GCI, the Chicago implentation. I also reached out to an email that I found for the NYC CEC implementation, so hopefully at least one of them respond in some way. I got an automatic reply from the UIC GCI one saying that the person I emailed was out of the office and will be back to check my email on Monday. Unfortunately, next week is our last, so it is possible that I would be setting up a meeting that I wouldn't be attending. A large part of me feels as though we overperformed in the first few weeks, giving NWD all they need to be able to answer our guiding question while we were only halfway through. Now we are left trying to be helpful, but realistically doing things like documenting everything OSP does is something that we could probably just ask OSP to give us prior to applying for a grant. Even our plan to make documentation is somewhat useless for NWD because OSP will provide all the training and information needed. If NWD will be the connector that OSP needs within the US, then our exploration of what it's like to work for a small co-op loses its meaning. Regardless of how tedious or boring the last week may feel, it is nice to be able to say that our internship was quite successful in completing the task at hand.  

## 7/26/2021
**On the fifteenth day,** we are continuing to prepare information and do research for grant proposals that NWD plans to do in the near future. It still remains unclear how much our doing is truly affecting the success of NWD beyond our internships, but grants like these might be a necessity for NWD to achieve its goals with Decidim. The problem is, I honestly think that NWD will rely on OSP for so much of what they do, that the workers of NWD might be left in the dust a bit. I have spent most of the day so far working on things that are more for PRIME than NWD. I will begin with more documentation now. I finished documentation for making meetings and made a bunch of improvements to the proposal documentation. I also remembered something important about the documentation, which is that OSP doesn't have their own written out documentation, they just tutor and hand-hold through the learning process. That means that there is a purpose behind the work we are doing this last week. I will try to emphasize this in conversation over the next few days.   

